---
layout: empty
title: jekyll
---


### Jekyll

Jekyll is a blog scaffold that transform your plain text into static websites and blogs. For more useful detailed informations, please visit [**《Jekyll Online Document》**](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/).

### Jekyll Structure

This template use the simplest Jekyll structure as follow. But since Jekyll is highly scalable, you can expend any module whenever you want.

```bash
.
├── _config.yml
├── _layouts
|   ├── main.html
|   └── post.html
├── _posts
|   ├── 2007-10-29-your-article-one.md
|   └── 2009-04-26-your-article-two.md
├── _site
├── assets
|   ├── css
|   └── fonts
|   └── js
├── .jekyll-metadata
└── index.html
```

An overview of what each of these does:

* **`_config.yml`**: This is the config file using YAML protocol. Most of the common arguments are included.
* **`_layouts`**: These are the templates that wrap posts. Layouts are chosen on a post-by-post basis in the YAML Front Matter. I initiate only two templates: one for main page, another for posts.
* **`_site`**: This is where the generated site will be placed (by default) once Jekyll is done transforming it. It’s probably a good idea to add this to your ".gitignore" file.
* **`assets`**: This is where I put the Bootstrap. You can see three folders: css,fonts and js.
* **`.jekyll-metadata`**: This is where the generated site will be placed (by default) once Jekyll is done transforming it. It’s probably a good idea to add this to your ".gitignore" file.
* **`index.html`**: The main access of your web site.


### Liquid Template Language

Jekyll use the **Liquid Template Laguage** to process the markdown files in batches. Here is good online guide for Liquid: [**《Syntax of Liquid Template Language》**](https://github.com/shopify/liquid/wiki/liquid-for-designers)

For example, we can use the following script to find a specific article we need,

```
{% for post in site.posts %}
{% if post.title == 'jekyll'%}
    {{ post }}
{% endif %}
{% endfor %}
```

To tell extractor the title of your post, you need to add a YAML head in your markdown file.

```
---
title: jekyll
---
```

To create some new Collections like `posts`, just add some add them into the `_config.yml` config file, and create a new directory `_your-new-collection` in the root of your project.

```
collections:
  posts:
    output:   true
  your-new-collection:
    output:   true
```
